---
title: About
layout: about
permalink: /about.html
# include CollectionBuilder info at bottom
credits: true
# Edit the markdown on in this file to describe your collection
# Look in _includes/feature for options to easily add features to the page
---

{% include feature/jumbotron.html objectid="https://cdil.lib.uidaho.edu/images/palouse_sm.jpg" %}

{% include feature/nav-menu.html sections="About the Collection;About the About Page" %}

## About the Collection
	This is a digital exhibition that contains several images and other documents concerning the area of DeCew Falls during the long 19th century. Included amongst the 19th century material covered in this exhibition, is a few images that I personally photographed of DeCew Falls in the fall of 2021. I chose to include my own images in order to give the viewers of this exhibition an idea of what this area looks like in more recent times. I wanted to make DeCew Falls and it’s surrounding area the focus of this exhibition because it is a place that I have always been interested in and it is also a place where I have experienced many important moments in my own life. The goal of this digital exhibition is to explore some key examples that highlight or reference important aspects of this area of DeCew Falls during the long 19th century.
	The first two images in the exhibition are of the front and back of a letter that was written on June 13, 1830. The images included in this exhibition of the letter come from a photocopied version I found in the Brock Archives. The letter was written by John DeCew and it was addressed to his son Edmund DeCew. The contents of the letter itself consist of fatherly advice. The letter is historically significant because it showcases how letters were folded and then sealed with wax during this time period. Another reason this letter is historically significant is because it serves as a record of an important 19th century figure. John DeCew is important because he was a United Empire Loyalist who served in the militia during the War of 1812. It was also his home (DeCew House), where Laura Secord warned the British of the impending US attack.
	The next image in the exhibition is a sketch I came across in the Brock Archives of DeCew House. This image is a reproduction of an original sketch that was drawn by Collins McBride. The reproduction sketch was donated to the Brock Archives by Helen R. McBride who was the great, great grand daughter of Captain John DeCew. The house itself is historically significant because it has ties to John DeCew, Laura Secord, and the War of 1812. The sketch is also significant because it is a historical record of what the house may have looked like during the 19th century. I know from my own personal experience hiking around DeCew Falls, there is only a monument left where DeCew House once stood. I think it’s really amazing that I found this sketch of DeCew House in the Brock Archives because I feel it further gives historical evidence that DeCew House existed.
	The next few images in this exhibition are of a tax receipt, the cover of a ledger, and the inside cover of the same ledger. These images came from documents that I found in the Brock Archives. These three documents are records belonging to Morningstar Mill. All of these documents also reference Wilson Morningstar who is important because he ran the mill from 1883 until his death in 1933. Wilson Morningstar and the mill are historically significant because they give us insight into how industrialization played an important role during the 19th century in this region. Under Wilson Morningstar, the mill operated as a saw mill and a blacksmith. These documents are important because they provide historical evidence of how people in the 19th century recorded important information pertaining to business. Today, the mill operates as a heritage site at DeCew Falls and most of the machinery is just as Wilson Morningstar left it in 1933. 
	Some of the remaining images in this exhibition are photographs that I found in the Brock digital repository of DeCew Falls and it’s surrounding area from the early 1900s. These images are of the Lower and Upper Falls at DeCew, Morningstar Mill, and the DeCew Falls Power House. These images are historically significant because they depict sceneries that were important to the success of industrialization during the 19th century in this region. The DeCew Power House was responsible for providing electricity to the area. Morningstar Mill operated as a saw mill and blacksmith. The mill used the power it generated from DeCew Falls in order to run its own power. I also included my own photographs of DeCew Falls and Morningstar Mill to allow the viewers of this digital exhibition to draw comparisons between the 19th century images and these more recent depictions. 
